---
title: log 2019-12-03
---

## Databases and Isolation Levels

I just learned about transaction isolation levels for databases, so I'm going
to do a quick writeup about what they are.

Databases have a concept of transactions in order to provide 
ACID operations to users. ACID stands for:

- Atomicity: transactions are indivisible (i.e. either completely happens or doesn't)
- Consistency: invariants are preserved across transactions
- Isolation:  transactions are executed as if they occur in sequential order
- Durability: transactions, once complete, are persistent even in cases of system failure

These all seem to be nice things to have when building an application that
interacts with a database. One problem with ACID is how to ensure Isolation.
For example, naively locking the whole database on every transaction will make
sure that all transactions behave as if they have occurred sequentially (because
they are really executed one after another), but doing this is obviously
pretty inefficient. Besides, it's probably not the case that we need perfect
isolation for every transaction. So, one approach we can take is to define
various degrees of isolation, or *isolation levels*, which provide different
guarantees and let the user decide on the tradeoff between isolation and efficiency.

The standard that comes up in discussions of isolation levels is the
[ISO/IEC 9075:1992 SQL standard](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt)[^spec]
which specifies four isolation levels from weaker to stronger guarantees:
READ UNCOMMITED, READ COMMITED, REPEATABLE READ, and SERIALIZABLE.
The standard then specifies what sort of behavior is permitted for each
isolation level.

[^spec]:
	See [The SQL Standard - ISO/IEC 9075:2016 - ANSI Blog](https://blog.ansi.org/2018/10/sql-standard-iso-iec-9075-2016-ansi-x3-135/) 
	for a brief history on SQL standards.

There are three kinds of problems which can occur for concurrent transactions
which are specified by the standard: dirty reads, non-repeatable reads, and
phantom reads. Let's look at them in order.[^examples]

[^examples]:
	The following examples and explanations are heavily based on the SQL standard.

### Dirty Reads

Dirty reads are when a transaction sees modifications by another transaction
which eventually aborts. For example, consider the following series of events,
where $T_1, T_2$ are transactions and $R_1$ is a row.

<figure>

|time|$T_1$|$T_2$|
|:--:|:---:|:---:|
|...|...|...|
|$t$|modify $R_1$||
|$t+1$||read $R_1$|
|$t+2$|rollback||
|...|...|...|

</figure>

Transaction $T_2$ would end up reading a value from $R_1$ which never should
have been seen from the point of view of the database. Note that this
may violate consistency (in ACID) as well, as invariants are only guaranteed
before and after transactions, but not in between.

### Non-repeatable Reads

Non-repeatable reads are when a transaction sees changes between two reads of
the same row. A simple example of how this might happen:

<figure>

|time|$T_1$|$T_2$|
|:--:|:---:|:---:|
|...|...|...|
|$t$|read $R_1$||
|$t+1$||modify $R_1$|
|$t+2$||commit|
|$t+3$|read $R_1$||
|...|...|...|

</figure>

From the perspective of $T_1$, the value of $R_1$ would be changing under it.

### Phantom Reads

While the standard merely refers to this as "phantom", I'm going with
this name as this is what seems to be used everywhere. Phantom reads are
when insertions by other transactions change the results of the same queries.
This differs from non-repeatable as the reads of rows themselves don't change,
but more rows might match queries.

<figure>

|time|$T_1$|$T_2$|
|:--:|:---:|:---:|
|...|...|...|
|$t$|reads set of rows satisfying \<condition\>||
|$t+1$||inserts rows (satisfying \<condition\>)|
|$t+2$||commit|
|$t+3$|reads set of rows satisfying \<condition\>||
|...|...|...|

</figure>

This sort of situation might occur when calculating an average across
some rows, where counting rows and summing them up are done as seperate
operations.

### Isolation Levels

The SQL standard defines isolation levels by which phenomena described above 
can happen.

<figure class="fullwidth">

||Dirty Reads|Non-repeatable Reads|Phantom Reads|
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
|READ UNCOMMITED|Possible|Possible|Possible|
|READ COMMITED  |        |Possible|Possible|
|REPEATABLE READ|        |        |Possible|
|SERIALIZABLE   |        |        |        |

</figure>

So as stronger isolation levels are enforced, you'll need to worry about
less and less problems at the expense of performance.

Now we know which sorts of guarantees can be made per the standard, which are
supported by the major RDBs (and to what extent), and how are these isolation
levels implemented? We're going to investigate that tomorrow.
