---
title: log 2019-12-02
---

<section>
I was a bit busy yesterday, studying topology and stuff like that.
Today is a new day, and I think it's prime time to investigate statically
generated math with pandoc. Fortunately, KaTeX provides a command line
interface so you can throw math at it and it'll return the rendered result in
html.

<figure class="fullwidth">
```{.haskell}
#!/usr/bin/env stack
-- stack --resolver lts-14.16 --install-ghc runghc --package pandoc-types --package text
{-# Language OverloadedStrings #-}

import System.Process (readProcess)
import qualified Data.Text as T
import Text.Pandoc.JSON

renderMath :: Inline -> IO Inline
renderMath (Math mathType text) =
  toInline <$> readProcess "/home/delta/.nix-profile/bin/npx" ("katex":options) text
    where
  options = case mathType of
    DisplayMath -> [ "--no-throw-on-error", "--display-mode" ]
    InlineMath ->  [ "--no-throw-on-error" ]
  toInline :: String -> Inline
  toInline = RawInline (Format "html")
renderMath x = return x

main :: IO ()
main = toJSONFilter renderMath
```
</figure>

Naively running this via runghc was pretty slow, so I added a rule to the
Makefile to compile this:

<figure class="fullwidth">
```
filters/%: filters/%.hs
	stack --resolver lts-14.16 --install-ghc ghc --package pandoc-types --package text -- $< -o $@
```
</figure>

Kind of concerned about the `T.pack` and `T.unpack`ing happening when invoking
KaTeX, but it works so far so I guess I'll deal with it if it becomes a problem.

Trying it out on some equations I wrote from the last year.

</section>

## MLE

assuming $\mathbf{x}$ is iid:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\hat{\mathbf{\theta}}
&= \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta} p(\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N} |\mathbf{\theta} ) \\
&= \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta} \prod^N_{i=1} p(\mathbf{x}_i |\mathbf{\theta} )
\end{aligned}
$$

where

$$
p(\mathbf{x}^* | \hat{\mathbf{\theta}})
$$

## MAP

$$
\begin{aligned}
\hat{\mathbf{\theta}}
&= \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta}p(\mathbf{\theta} |\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N}) \\
&= \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta} \frac{p(\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N} |\mathbf{\theta}) p(\mathbf{\theta})}{p(\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N})} \\
&= \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta} \frac{\prod^N_{i=1} p(\mathbf{x}_i |\mathbf{\theta}) p(\mathbf{\theta})}{p(\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N})} \\
&\propto \mathop{\rm argmax}\limits_\mathbf{\theta} \prod^N_{i=1} p(\mathbf{x}_i |\mathbf{\theta}) p(\mathbf{\theta})
\end{aligned}
$$

where

$$
p(\mathbf{x}^* | \hat{\mathbf{\theta}})
$$

MAP with a uniform prior is identical to MLE.

## Bayesian Approach

$$
\begin{aligned}
p(\mathbf{\theta} | \mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N})
&= \frac{\prod^N_{i=1} p(\mathbf{x}_i|\theta)p(\mathbf{\theta})}{p(\mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N})}
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
p(\mathbf{x}^* | \mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N}) = \int p(\mathbf{x}^* | \mathbf{\theta}) p(\mathbf{\theta} | \mathbf{x}_{1 \ldots N}) d\mathbf{\theta}
$$

...Well, it turns out that statically rendering KaTeX makes the output
unreasonably ugly, so I'm going to stick to pandoc's `--katex` option for now.[^tofix]

[^tofix]:
	At least until I can find out what is causing this. I think there's a lot of
	value in statically rendered math.
