---
title: log 2020-02-24
---

<section>

<figure>

|||
|:-|:-:|
|10:00|起床|
|11:00|シャワー|
|11:30|移動|
|12:30|昼食|
|13:45|映画|
|16:30|移動|
|17:00|読書|
|17:30|運動|
|18:30|シャワー|
|19:00|夕食|
|20:00|-|
|21:00|日報|

</figure>

I'm rebooting nippo; the main difference from the old one is the current one will
generally be in English (with a small amount of Japanese where convenient).

Still feel a bit jetlagged, but I think daylight exposure and
excercise is helping a bit.

Read the first two chapters of Benetar, and while I agree with the
general gist of it[^benetar] I'm not sure I agree with some of the details.
Possibly missed some important points, so I'll probably reread the book before I
start drawing conclusions.

[^benetar]: It's relieving to know that other people are thinking / have thought
about similar things and are coming / have came to similar conclusions.

Nix is compiling something, I believe it's Pandoc.
I originally set up the environment for writing this nippo on my new XPS 13,
but due to reasons I'm writing this on my old Thinkpad.

This is my second day playing Fit Boxing, and the daily routine suddenly
became longer and much more intense. My arms feel pretty heavy right now,
but fortunately typing is unimpaired[^bouldering].

[^bouldering]: Unlike bouldering.

Pandoc compilation finished, and
`nix-env -iA nixpkgs.haskellPackages.pandoc-sidenote` was all I needed to
get the new nippo working on this machine. I have past me to thank for how
smooth setup is.

</section>

## daily info

Weight: 72.0kg  
Goal: 65.0kg

