---
title: log 2020-02-26
---

<section>

<figure>

|||
|:-|:-:|
|11:00|起床|
|12:00|昼食|
|13:00|論文執筆|
|16:30|移動|
|17:30|夕食|
|20:30|帰宅+日報|

</figure>

Yesterday, I went to the lab to fix up a paper, but mainly procrastinated.
Today, I'm finishing up the rest of the issues. It's my first time dealing
with a paper that's conditionally accepted and it's been pretty interesting.

My arms *still* ache. I must have done some serious damage to my muscles.
I haven't done the Fit Boxing daily regimen for two days now, probably should
wait until the aching stops.

Continuing to read Benetar. An analogy that came up really clicked with me,
but I can't remember the details. I definitely should reread this book several times.

I remembered that I like plots that incorporate time-loops. Here's one that
I like:
[Exit Strategy by Travis Bible | Sci-Fi Time Travel Short Film - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dczdt1CvAwI)

Now that I'm done with the paper, I'm officially free of all school-related
obligations and can finally focus on proofreading a senpai's paper, among
other things. Sorry for the wait, everyone.

When I woke up at like 3:00 AM yesterday[^yesterday], I started reading Expert
F# and I like the language so far[^expertfsharp]. I can't wait to get to the
F#-specific features like units of measure and computation expressions.

[^yesterday]: By yesterday, I mean yesterday rather then today. Cicardian
rhythm still hasn't recovered completely from jetlag.

[^expertfsharp]: I don't think the book is that good, though. Lot's of
concepts are suddenly used in example code before being introduced.
I think someone who isn't well-acquanted with functional programming, or
possible OCaml in particular, might get lost pretty quickly.

</section>

## daily info

Weight:   
Goal: 65.0kg
